Containerized proxy - copying images to internal registry (#1981)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/installation-and-upgrade/pages/containerized-proxy-deployment.adoc

[[containerized-proxy-deployment]]
= Containerized proxy deployment using internal registry

It is possible to deploy containerized images in an environment without an internet connection.
In such case, the images can be copied from {suse} registry to an internal registry, or saved to a [literal]``tar`` file.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

[[image.from.suse.to.internal.registry]]
== Image copying from {suse} registry to internal registry 

This example illustrates deployment of {salt} proxies only.

.Procedure: Deploying {salt} Proxy from an internal image registry
[role=procedure]

> . Install [literal]``skopeo`` on a machine with access to [literal]``registry.suse.com``:

Reviewer: I think you'd better add "on a machine with access to [literal]``registry.suse.com``" to the sentence before the procedure.  It seems to be a requirement.
Cf. the following procedure.

+
----
zypper in skopeo
----
+
[NOTE]
====

> This can be {productname} server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be {productname} Server.
```

====
+
. Copy images between registries:
+
----

> for image in httpd salt-broker squid ssh tftpd; do

Reviewer: I think we'd better use pointy brackets here instead of parens: Instead of `(your_server)` use `<your_server>`.

    skopeo copy docker://registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-$image:latest docker://(your_server)/registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-$image
done
skopeo copy docker://k8s.gcr.io/pause:latest docker://(your_server)/k8s.gcr.io/pause:latest
----
+
[NOTE]
====
For every [literal]`skopeo` command add [literal]`--dest-tls-verify=false` if the registry is not secured.
====
+

> . If the registry is unsecured, i.e. not configured with SSL, add the regitry domain to the section [literal]``registries.insecure`` on the containerized proxy virtual machine by editing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If the registry is unsecured, for example not configured with SSL, add the registry domain to the section [literal]``registries.insecure`` on the containerized proxy virtual machine by editing:
```

+
----
/etc/containers/registries.conf
----
+

> . Before starting the pod, point the Podman where to get the [literal]`pause` image from on the internal registry:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Before starting the pod, point the Podman where to get the [literal]``pause`` image from on the internal registry:
```

+
----
echo -e '[engine]\ninfra_image = "(your_server)/pause:latest"'>>/etc/containers/containers.conf
----
+

> . To start using the images from the internal registry please adapt the [literal]`NAMESPACE` value in file `/etc/sysconfig/uyuni-proxy-systemd-services.config`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To start using the images from the internal registry adapt the [literal]``NAMESPACE`` value in [path]``/etc/sysconfig/uyuni-proxy-systemd-services.config``.
```

+
[NOTE]
====

> For the k3s deployment, add [literal]`--set repository=(your_server)` to the helm install command line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the k3s deployment, add [literal]``--set repository=(your_server)`` to the helm install command line.
```

====

[[air-gapped-solution-for-podman]]
== Air-gapped solution for Podman

This example illustrates deployment of containerized image on a machine with no access to internet.

.Procedure: Deploying air-gapped proxy
[role=procedure]

> . Before starting the pod, point the Podman where to get the [literal]`pause` image from on the internal registry:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Before starting the pod, point the Podman where to get the [literal]``pause`` image from on the internal registry:
```

+
----
echo -e '[engine]\ninfra_image = "(your_server)/pause:latest"'>>/etc/containers/containers.conf
----
+
[WARNING]
====

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This command does not work on SLE 15 SP3 and earlier container hosts.
====
+
. On a machine with internet access run:
+
----
for image in httpd salt-broker squid ssh tftpd; do
    podman pull registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-$image
done
podman pull k8s.gcr.io/pause

podman save -m -o proxy-images.tar \
    k8s.gcr.io/pause \
    registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-httpd \
    registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-salt-broker \

>     registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-squid registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-ssh \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-squid \
    registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-ssh \
```

    registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-tftpd
----
+
[NOTE]
====

> For the k3s deployment, add [literal]`--set repository=(your_server)` to the helm install command line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the k3s deployment, add [literal]``--set repository=(your_server)`` to the helm install command line.
```

====
+

> . Transfer the [literal]`proxy-images.tar` to the air-gapped proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Transfer the [literal]``proxy-images.tar`` to the air-gapped proxy.
```

[[containerized-proxy-deployment]]
= Containerized proxy deployment using internal registry

It is possible to deploy containerized images in an environment without an internet connection.
In such case, the images can be copied from {suse} registry to an internal registry, or saved to a [literal]``tar`` file.

[[image.from.suse.to.internal.registry]]
== Image copying from {suse} registry to internal registry 

> This example illustrates deployment of {salt} proxies only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example illustrates deployment of {salt} proxies only.
Machines must have access to [literal]``registry.suse.com``.
```

.Procedure: Deploying {salt} Proxy from an internal image registry
[role=procedure]

> . On a machine with access to [literal]``registry.suse.com`` install [literal]``skopeo``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Install [literal]``skopeo``:
```

[[containerized-proxy-deployment]]
= Containerized proxy deployment using internal registry

It is possible to deploy containerized images in an environment without an internet connection.

> In such case, the images are copied from {suse} registry to an internal registry, or saved to a [literal]``tar`` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In such case, the images can be copied from {suse} registry to an internal registry, or saved to a [literal]``tar`` file.
```

[[image.from.suse.to.internal.registry]]
== Image copying from {suse} registry to internal registry 

This example illustrates deployment of {salt} proxies only.

.Procedure: Deploying {salt} Proxy from an internal image registry
[role=procedure]

. Install [literal]``skopeo`` on a machine with access to [literal]``registry.suse.com``:
+
----
zypper in skopeo (can be {productname} server)
----
+
. Copy images between registries:
+
----

> for image in httpd proxy-salt-broker squid ssh tftpd; do
>     skopeo copy --dest-tls-verify=false docker://registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-$image:latest docker://(your_server)/proxy-$image
> done

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
for image in httpd salt-broker squid ssh tftpd; do
    skopeo copy docker://registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-$image:latest docker://(your_server)/registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-$image
done
skopeo copy docker://k8s.gcr.io/pause:latest docker://(your_server)/k8s.gcr.io/pause:latest
```

[[containerized-proxy-deployment]]

> = Containerized proxy deployment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
= Containerized proxy deployment using internal registry
```

It is possible to deploy containerized images in an environment without an internet connection.
In such case, the images are copied from {suse} registry to an internal registry, or saved to a [literal]``tar`` file.

> You should first register Salt minion to {productname} server, and then re-use the same FQDN in a generation.

Reviewer 2: remove this sentence, this is already said in other part of the documentation

[[image.from.suse.to.internal.registry]]
== Image copying from {suse} registry to internal registry 

This example illustrates deployment of {salt} proxies only.

> .Procedure: Deploying {salt} Proxy from containerized image

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Procedure: Deploying {salt} Proxy from an internal image registry
```

[role=procedure]

. Install [literal]``skopeo`` on a machine with access to [literal]``registry.suse.com``:
+
----
zypper in skopeo (can be {productname} server)
----
+
. Copy images between registries:
+
----
for image in httpd proxy-salt-broker squid ssh tftpd; do
    skopeo copy --dest-tls-verify=false docker://registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-$image:latest docker://(your_server)/proxy-$image
done
----
+
. If the registry is unsecured, i.e. not configured with SSL, add the regitry domain to the section [literal]``insecure list`` on the containerized proxy virtual machine by editing:
+
----
/etc/containers/registries.conf
----
+
[NOTE]
====

> If you want to copy the images to a registry with SSL, remove the property [literal]`--dest-tls-verify=false`.

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't we invert the logic and have a note to add that parameter if the registry is not secured?

Author: @cbosdo - Would this work? "If the registry is not secured, add `--dest-tls-verify=false` ?

Reviewer 3: yes it would

====

> 

Reviewer 2: I think we are missing a block explaining on how to use the images from the internal registry. Something like:
```
To start using the images from the internal registry please adapt the image path at file `/etc/sysconfig/uyuni-proxy-systemd-services.config`.
```
@cbosdo looks fine?

Reviewer 3: I wonder if that is enough. I need to test it: the `pause` image may need to be changed in the config

Reviewer 3: You need to run something like this before starting the pod for `podman` to locate the `pause` image:

```
echo -e '[engine]\nimfra_image = "(your_server)/pause:latest"'>>/etc/containers/containers.conf
```

**This doesn't work on SLE 15 SP3 and before container host as it is affected by https://github.com/containers/podman/issues/12245.**

For the k3s deployment, just add `--set repository=(your_server)` to the helm install command line.

[[air-gapped-solution-for-podman]]
== Air-gapped solution for Podman

This example illustrates deployment of containerized image on a machine with no access to internet.

.Procedure: Deploying air-gapped proxy
[role=procedure]

. Before starting the pod, on a machine with internet access run:
+
----
for image in httpd salt-broker squid ssh tftpd; do
    podman pull registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-$image
done
podman pull k8s.gcr.io/pause

podman save -m -o proxy-images.tar \
    k8s.gcr.io/pause \
    registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-httpd \
    registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-salt-broker \
    registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-squid registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-ssh \
    registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-tftpd
----
+
. Transfer the [literal]`proxy-images.tar` to the air-gapped proxy.

> . Run this command to start the pod:

Reviewer 3: This command does not start the pod, just makes the images available for it to be started after

In such case, the images can be copied from {suse} registry to an internal registry, or saved to a [literal]``tar`` file.

[[image.from.suse.to.internal.registry]]
== Image copying from {suse} registry to internal registry 

This example illustrates deployment of {salt} proxies only.

.Procedure: Deploying {salt} Proxy from an internal image registry
[role=procedure]

. Install [literal]``skopeo`` on a machine with access to [literal]``registry.suse.com``:
+
----
zypper in skopeo (can be {productname} server)
----
+
. Copy images between registries:
+
----
for image in httpd salt-broker squid ssh tftpd; do
    skopeo copy docker://registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-$image:latest docker://(your_server)/registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-$image
done
skopeo copy docker://k8s.gcr.io/pause:latest docker://(your_server)/k8s.gcr.io/pause:latest
----
+
. If the registry is unsecured, i.e. not configured with SSL, add the regitry domain to the section [literal]``registries.insecure`` on the containerized proxy virtual machine by editing:
+
----
/etc/containers/registries.conf
----
+
[NOTE]
====

> If the registry is not secured, add [literal]``--dest-tls-verify=false``.

Reviewer 3: May be we want to precise this option has to be added to the `skope copy` command line above?

====
+
. To start using the images from the internal registry please adapt the [literal]`NAMESPACE` value in file `/etc/sysconfig/uyuni-proxy-systemd-services.config`.

[[air-gapped-solution-for-podman]]
== Air-gapped solution for Podman

> This example illustrates deployment of containerized image on a machine with no access to internet.

Reviewer 3: Not sure if you make a wording difference, but this procedure is for strict air-gapped setup where the Uyuni server and proxy network has no internet connection at all. This means the images need to be transferred using USB key.

Note that this doesn't prevent to have a mix of the two scenarios where the isolated network has an internal registry, but I suppose users with such setup will be smart enough to adapt the doc to their use case.

.Procedure: Deploying air-gapped proxy
[role=procedure]

> . Before starting the pod, to locate the pause image run the command:

Reviewer 3: Is `locate` the appropriate word here? This basically tells `podman` where to get the `pause` image from on the internal registry.

This also goes with the above section, using an internal registry.

+
----

> echo -e '[engine]\nimfra_image = "(your_server)/pause:latest"'>>/etc/containers/containers.conf

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
echo -e '[engine]\ninfra_image = "(your_server)/pause:latest"'>>/etc/containers/containers.conf
```

----
+
[WARNING]
====

This command does not work on SLE 15 SP3 and earlier container hosts.
====
+
. On a machine with internet access run:
+
----
for image in httpd salt-broker squid ssh tftpd; do
    podman pull registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-$image
done
podman pull k8s.gcr.io/pause

podman save -m -o proxy-images.tar \
    k8s.gcr.io/pause \
    registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-httpd \
    registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-salt-broker \
    registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-squid registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-ssh \
    registry.suse.com/suse/manager/4.3/proxy-tftpd
----
+
. Transfer the [literal]`proxy-images.tar` to the air-gapped proxy.
. To make images available to be started when needed, run the command:
+
----
podman load -i proxy-images.tar
----
+

> [NOTE]

Reviewer 3: This note goes with the previous section using the internal registry.
